Hi and Welcome back.
In this video, we're going to get data out of multiple pages
and that's going to be really simple,
because each page has, essentially, the same content,
and all we have to do is,
instead of getting a list of book parsers,
which is from one page,
we're going to get the book parsers from each page
and then we're gonna join them all into a single list.
And that's going to give us a list of all the books
in each page.
So, what we're going to do is,
instead of saying books = page.books
what we're going to do is, we're going to start by
going over each of the pages.
So instead of going over this page here,
we are going to do:
for page_num in range(50)
There are 50 pages.
We're going to say the URL is this here,
but also
catalogue/page-(page_num+1).html
and, of course, this has to be an f string in there.
What this is going to do now is construct the URL
of the page we want,
starting at one.
Remember, the range function starts at zero, goes 0 to 49
Our pages go from 1 to 50,
so we have to add one to the page_num that we've got.
And then all we do is get the URL.
page_content = requests.get(url).content
And of course, construct the page with the page_content.
And then we are going to make sure to put them into our list
So that's going to be books.extend
(page.books)
Like that.
Now, because we've got page one here,
we can start, of course, at page two.
So our range can go from 1 to 50,
which is going to be 48 numbers.
So, page two is gonna be the first page we're gonna
get in this section.
And we're going to start with page one,
which is actually this one.
Remember how the page one and the page that has nothing,
in terms of the catalogue and page number, is also page one.
So, this is page one here.
And then what we do is we get the book's pages,
then we go over the rest of the pages and extend that list
by the page.books that we have just downloaded.
OK? So, by the time this file finishes running,
books will contain the information of all the pages.
Now, notice that is something important, though,
which is that the 50 is hard coded.
And sometimes you won't want that.
Sometimes, you'll want to make sure
that you get the page count from the page itself,
so that you don't go wrong.
For example, if they add more books to the collection,
the page number, the base count, might increase.
Let's try this out though, first of all,
by running our menu and see whether anything changes.
Let's press play in the menu
Notice how this takes a while now.
It takes a while because it's having to go through
all of the pages and downloading each of them.
So, it takes a while.
Then we can do B.
And now we get all the books.
Notice how, now, all the books we get are five-star books
whereas before we got a few five-stars, a few four-stars.
That's because now we have more books
and therefore, there are a larger number of five-star books.
Similarly, if we get just the cheapest books,
there'll be books that are lower price,
in this case we've got a 10 pound one
here, that is five-stars.
And we've got a few other 10 pounders here.
So as you can see, it doesn't even go over 10
because there are so many books now,
that it doesn't go over that,
when you only get the 10 cheapest ones.
And if you went next and next,
you would be here for a long time.
The "A Light in the Attic" book's still the first book.
But, now there are many more books in the collection.
Of course, there are more things you can tell your users,
like how many books there are in the collection,
you can tell them which ones are in stock or not,
although you'd have to look at another property
in the book parser in order to do that.
So there's quite a lot of stuff you can do there.
One other area of improvement would be,
other than the 50 being hard coded,
would be to
get all these URLs
at the same time,
or more or less at the same time,
and doing, essentially, parallel downloading.
Downloading the things simultaneously.
This is something that Python can do
and we may look at that later on in the course.
But, for now, we'll settle for downloading one at a time
and when it's finished downloading,
moving on to the next one.
Later on, we can look into doing them at the same time.
Okay, so that's it for requesting a larger number of pages,
which you can see is very simple.
Let's go and, not hard code the page count.
So, we're going to get the 50 from the page,
as opposed to putting the number here.
Let's go and do that in the next video.
I'll see you there.